# Prosper Loan Data Exploration
## by Rofhiwa Kgomo


## Dataset

> There are 113,937 loans in the dataset with 81 features. Most variables are numeric and categorical in nature.

> The dataset features can be split into two main categories:

>- Borrower information
>- Loan performance information


## Summary of Findings

> In this notebook, I wanted to find out which features were the best indicators for predicting the highest rate of return.

>In the univariate exploration, I visualized and addressed minor quality and tidiness issues for the following features:

#### Numerical Features
>- Distribution of Origination Rates
>- Distribution of Origination Fees
>- Distribution of Estimated Returns

#### Categorical Features
>- Originations by Loan Term
>- Originations by Prosper Rating
>- Originations by IsBorrowerHomeowner


### Bivariate exploration
> The bivariate exploration revealed the most of Origination Fees are generated by loans with a 36 months term, which are also the more frequent. The distribution of Origination Fees generated across different loan term follow the amount of loans originated for each category. As the Origination Rate is related to the risk profile of the borrower, it is possible to notice the it increases as the loans become riskier. Regarding the distribution, it become more spread out as the risk profile increases.


### Multivariate exploration
> The multivariate exploration revealed the most profitable loans are the 63.4% of the total loans and generate the 73.4% of the Origination Fees. The low risk profitable loans (A36) are the 12.5% of the total loans and generate the 14% of Origination Fees. The most profitable loans are the 63.4% of the total loans and generate the 73.4% of the Origination Fees. The most profitable class of loans is A36, which has the lowest risk profile and is the 12.5% of the total loans and generates the 14% of Origination Fees. The rate of not employed borrowers slightly increases as the risk profile increases.


## Key Insights for Presentation

> For the presentation, I focus on the journey of exploring the features of interest to discover the relationship between  Distribution of Origination Rate and Loan Amounts, Top loan classes by Originations, Origination Fees and Loan Amounts, Loan Picking, Median values of Credit History Variables across Rating Categories and Loan Terms and Prosper past borrowers have lower Origination Fees.

> I begin with introducing the features of interest of the Distribution of Origination Rate and Loan Amounts, followed by how they relate to one another and eventually how they correlate with credit history and if past borrowers have lower origination fees.